#summary Features List for QuickServer

= Major Features =
 * Create multi-client TCP server applications.
 * Support for secure server creations: SSL, TLS.
 * Support for thread per client (multi-threaded) - Blocking Mode.
 * Support for non-blocking input output - Non-Blocking Mode.
 * Clear separation of server, protocol and authentication logic.
 * Remote administration support: QSAdminServer (With support plugable application commands).
 * Command Shell for local administration of server.
 * GUI based remote administration: QsAdminGUI (with support for plug-ins)
 * Restart or Suspend the server without killing connected clients.
 * In build pools for reusing of Threads and most used Objects.
 * Full logging support [Java built in Logging].
 * Support for sending and receiving Strings, Bytes, Binary and serialized java objects.
 * Support for identifying and searching a client.
 * Support for xml configuration with ability to store application specific data in the same xml. [View Sample]
 * Support for xml Based JDBC Mapping.
 * Support for Service Configurator pattern.
 * Support for restricting access to server by ip address.
 * Support for loading/reloading application jar from xml.
 * Ability to add process hooks into QuickServer.
 * Ability to specify maximum number of clients allowed.
 * Support for negotiating secure connection over normal tcp connection.
 * Nice easy examples come with the distribution - FTPServer, CmdServer, EchoWebServer, ChatServer, SecureEchoWebServer, XmlAdder, PipeServer, Filesrv.


 
= What's New in 1.4.7 =

 * Implemented support auto NIO writes in sendClientXXX methods of ClientHandler.
 * Added initServer() method that throws AppException if it fails.
 * Added getServiceError() to Service.
 * Added load() method to QuickServer that loads the server from the xml file.
 * Improved ByteBufferInputStream for readLine.
 * Improved BasicClientHandler, NonBlockingClientHandler.
 * Improved setClassLoader() in QuickServer.
 * GhostSocketReaper now will close pools after last client disconnects after server is stopped.
 * Many more bug fixes and enhancements.

[Download] [Change Log]